Welcome to our video for setting up your hardware and development environment.
This is mostly stuff like your Mezzanine and
your sensors so you can work on what you need to do.
Here's a brief overview of everything we'll be doing in this video.
The first thing we're going to do is talking about
the Mezzanine Attachment procedure
and some precautions about what to do and what not to do.
Then it's showing us a demo of us actually attaching it.
Next, we're going to do a walkthrough of the layout of the Mezzanine.
Basically, where everything is and what are the functions of everything.
The last part is finally connecting a module to the Sensors Mezzanine.
In this case, the LED module.
Before we install the Mezzanine we want to advise
you to follow some of these precautions.
The first one is to never install your Mezzanine while the DragonBoard is on.
This is important because you might short circuit or if you guys don't know,
that will cause there to be infinite current through the wires, so you don't want that.
The second part is to work in a ESD compliant environment.
We can't really do that right now but, if you guys can,
we really advise you to work in it to avoid damaging your parts.
We haven't really found anything wrong with not using it,
but you guys should.
Protect your investment.
The next part is how to attach it.
The first thing you're going to do is attaching the spacers to the Mezzanine.
The Mezzanine comes with four white spacers and screws to attach them.
You just want to put them on the corresponding holes.
We'll be showing this after this but,
after you put the spacers on,
you want to make sure your DragonBoard is not powered
so you don't damage it when you try to put it on.
And then when you actually want to put the Mezzanine on,
you will align the pins with
the low speed header then insert the Mezzanine to the DragonBoard.
Once you double check that all the pins are
in the header and everything's correctly aligned,
then you can power on your DragonBoard and it should work fine.
Now, we'll be showing you,
us actually putting the Mezzanine together.
Now, we'll be attaching the Mezzanine to the DragonBoard.
Here is the Mezzanine itself,
and here's the screw.
You don't see? Here's the little screw and the little spacer.
We'll be putting this on the Mezzanine.
Three of them are already on, so we don't need to worry about that.
I'll bring it closer.
And then, as you can see here,
just put the screw into the hole and then put the little spacer washer into it.
There we go, like that.
And then just twist on.
And now it's good. You have
all four spacers on and you can attached it to the DragonBoard.
I'll grab the DragonBoard right here and, as you can see here,
there's all the low speed header pins correspond directly to these pins right here.
And then you just want to align it like that and double check that everything is good.
And then just press in.
It takes a little bit of force but it shouldn't take that much.
Just double check that all the pins are aligned, as you can see here.
And then now that that's good, you can power it on,
and we'll just put it on the table and plug in the power.
Now everything's fine.
A small little light is blinking to show that it's on.
And there's no smoke or fire or anything.
It should be good.
After this we just go back to the sides and talk about the Mezzanine some more.
So, we want to go through what is actually on the Mezzanine.
The first part is the low speed header and we went over this earlier,
it's the black thing on the top in the image,
and this is where the Mezzanine can connect to the DragonBoard.
And the next part is that GPIO pins.
GPIO pins are located on
the right most row on the bottom and also on the left most side.
It's the white part on the left most side. It's labeled "AB" and these
are all your GPIO pins.
I2C, I2C1 and 3.3 volts are located in your middle column.
And then the SPI is the blue part on
the left most column with the six metal pins coming out of it.
And then the UART is the micro USB at the top,
where you can connect micro USB to USB connect wire to whatever you're using.
So all those connectors are directly mapped to the DragonBoard.
They just provide a quick easy access to them.
So now we'll talk about all the connectors and ports that are
corresponding to the ATmega on the Mezzanine itself.
First off, you can see the ATmega chip itself right in the middle.
The big square, right above the blue header, highlighted in blue.
The first thing we want to go through is the Arduino Headers,
those are the two long thin blue headers and those are supposed to
look exactly like the headers in our Arduino Uno so
that any Arduino shield that we want connect will fit perfectly on.
The next part is grove connectors to some of those pins,
and those would be the digital I/0 three to seven.
And you can see on the right side,
it's all those grove connectors there.
And then we have three analog inputs A0 to
A2 and that's going to be on the left side, the three on the top left.
Again, those are mapped directly to the blue header pins.
They're just an easy connection that you can use.
The fourth one is the I2C, the Arduino I2C,
and that is labeled "AI2C" for Arduino.
That will be located on the bottom left as highlighted on blue.
And then we have the SPI header for the Arduino.
That is located on the very bottom.
It is also a blue header and sets six pins.
The last two are the reset button and the power button,
and that's going to be on the top right.
The reset and the power button are for the Arduino,
so if you want to reset it so that
the program runs again and if you want to power it off.
So connecting a module,
what you will need is an LED module,
an LED, and a grove connector.
The grove connectors are located in your Mezzanine kit,
and these are four wires
that connect directly to the white ports of the DragonBoard,
and what you want to do is take
your sensor and connect one side of the grove connector to this LED module.
You can find this in the kit as well.
And then the LED module,
you can connect the LED to it and then you can connect the module to your Mezzanine.
So now we'll be connecting an LED module to the DragonBoard and showing you how.
The first thing you want to note is here is the LED module itself and then we have
the LEU to put in the module and
the cable to connect the module to the Sensors Mezzanine.
The first thing we want to do,
as we stated before,
is put the LED into the module.
This won't be the case for most modules because they're self-contained,
but this one happens to let you customize whichever LED you want to use.
If you guys don't know about LED's,
make sure you guys put it on correctly.
You want to put the long one on the plus side,
if you guys don't know already.
Yeah, they're just very specific about it.
Yeah.
Now we have the LCD connected to
the module and next we want to put this connector into it.
It doesn't have to be in this order,
but we just explained it this way.
It connects perfectly. And then,
you want to put it into the AB port right there.
And then now you have it connected.
Now this will set you up for our next video which we'll show you guys how to
actually control the LED that's connected to the DragonBoard.
But for now, let's go to some takeaways.
So, we showed you where all the ports are.
So that's important for knowing just where to
connect it to and what we're talking about when we mentioned them in the future.
The next part, we want to make sure you guys understand is that you guys want to
know which ports are connected to the DragonBoard and which ones
are connected to Arduino or the ATmega.
We refer to it both ways.
So make sure you guys know how to use the grove connectors
to link the sensor to your Mezzanine.
So we'll be using this extensively in future videos so be on the lookout for that.